Document APIv9. (#2855)
hammerandchisel/discord-api-docs: docs/topics/Threads.md

# Threads

[Threads](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/channel-object) are a new Discord feature, only available in API v9. Bots that do not update to API v9 will not receive gateway events for threads, or things that happen in threads (such as [Message Create](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/message-create)).

Threads have been designed to be very similar to [channel](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/channel-object) objects, and this topic aggregates all of the information about threads, which should all help to make migrating very straightforward.

## Disclaimer

> Threads have not shipped yet, and so everything in this documentation is still subject to change. At a minimum additional status codes will be added for reaching certain limits, but additional changes are still fair game, and likely.

Reviewer: this wording kinda makes me worried. when is the latest we can expect to see breaking changes? because i imagine not all libraries might want to support them until then, and bots will still need some time to update to the lib update after that.

Reviewer 2: after seeing that I had that thought too...  library maintainers would probably rather have a basically stable API instead of one that could change and break at whim

Author: I think _breaking_ changes are fairly unlikely at this point, the protocols are generally finished, and been tested for a few months now.  If there _was_ a breaking change, it's hard to say, just because there's nothing planned and it's hard to imagine what that would be so we'll have to play it by ear.

I think what's more likely is things like some new status codes (there will be at least 2 I think, for when threads are "full"), and there may be additional features, especially around moderation tooling, so that's what is likely to be added, I highly doubt any of that will be _breaking_ though.  But always a possibility.

## Active & Archived Threads

Every thread can be either active or archived. Changing a thread from archived -> active is referred to as unarchiving the thread. Threads that have `locked` set to true can only be unarchived by a user with the `MANAGE_THREADS` permission.

Besides helping to de-clutter the UI for users, archiving exists to limit the working set of threads that need to be kept around. Since the number of archived threads can be quite large, keeping all of them in memory may be quite prohibitive. Therefore guilds are capped at a certain number of active threads, and only active threads can be manipulated. Users cannot send messages, edit messages, add reactions, use slash commands, or join archived threads. The only operation that should happen within an archived thread is messages being deleted.

Because of this constraint, the gateway protocol is designed to ensure that bots are able to have an accurate view of the full set of active threads, but archived threads are not synced up-front via the gateway.

> Threads do not count against the max-channels limit in a guild, but there will be a new limit on the maximum number of active threads in a guild.

Reviewer 3: Are there plans to expose this maximum on the Guild object?

Author: Don't think we need to, we don't expose other constants on the Guild object like the number of emojis a server can have?

Reviewer 3: Ah, this is information we expose in JDA but I'm realizing it is because it is a hardcoded limited augmented by BoostTiers.
Part of this expectation was the thought that maximums might vary between Guilds which would be an important metric for Moderation bots to know in regards to handling auto-archives if needed or whatever else they might do to avoid hitting limits for various features.

Author: Gotcha.  If the limits become dynamic, we can make sure they're synced on the guild.  I suspect they will be fairly static though, and we'll just publish a few constants somewhere.

> Threads do not count against the max-channels limit in a guild, but there will be a new limit on the maximum number of active threads in a guild.

Reviewer 3: Is this maximum planned to be varied based on the size of the Guild in any way? Some guilds are significantly larger and will encounter this limit much faster than a private Guild.

Author: We haven't decided what the maximum will be

- [Guild Create](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/guild-create) contains a new field, `threads`, which is an array of channel objects. This represents all active threads in the guild, that the current user is able to view.
- When a thread is created, updated, or deleted, a [Thread Create](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/thread-create), [Thread Update](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/thread-update), or [Thread Delete](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/thread-delete) event is sent. Like their channel counterparts, these just contain a thread.
- Since the gateway only syncs active threads that the user can see, if a user _gains_ access to a channel, then the gateway may need to sync the active threads in that channel to the user. It will send a [Thread List Sync](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/thread-list-sync) event for this.

## Thread Membership

Each thread tracks explicit membership. There are two primary use cases for this data:

- Clients use _their own_ [thread member](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/thread-member-object) to calculate read states and notification settings. This is largely irrelevant for bots though, but is the reason for some of the syncing complexity detailed here.
- Knowing everyone that is in a thread.

> Membership is tracked in an array of [thread member](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/thread-member-object) objects. These have four fields, `id` (the thread id), `user_id`, `join_timestamp`, and `flags`. Currently the only `flags` are for notification settings, but others may be added in future updates.

Reviewer 3: If a `thread member` loses "access" by way of the removal of `SEND_MESSAGES`, or `USE_PUBLIC/PRIVATE_THREADS` are they removed from this array?

If not, are they removed if `READ_MESSAGES` is removed?

Author: No, we don't remove people when losing access to a channel.
One reason is a moderator may make a mistake or temporarily want to hide a channel, and it would be a bad experience to kick everyone out of a thread then!

### Syncing for the current user

> - A [Thread Members Update](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/thread-members-update) Gateway Event is always sent when the current user is added to or removed from a thread.

Reviewer 3: Is this only fired if a user is explicitly removed? (Self removal or removed by an Admin)
Or is this also triggered by implicit access lost via the revocation of `READ_MESSAGES` on the parent channel?

Author: It's sent when someone is added or removed.
Permission changes will not remove you from a thread

- The [Guild Create](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/guild-create) Gateway Event will contain a [thread member](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/thread-member-object) object as a property on any returned threads the current is a member of.
- The [Thread Create](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/thread-create) Gateway Event will contain a [thread member](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/thread-member-object) object as a property of the thread if the current user is a member of, and the user has recently gained access to view the parent channel.
- The [Thread List Sync](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/thread-list-sync) Gateway Event will contain an array of [thread member](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/thread-member-object) objects for any returned threads the current user is a member of.

### Syncing for other users

> info
> These require the `GUILD_MEMBERS` [Gateway Intent](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/gateway-intents)

> - An API `GET` call to `/channels/<channel_id>/thread-members` which returns an array of [thread member](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/thread-member-object) objects.

Reviewer 4: Seem to be missing the documentation for this in the channel resource as well.

Also, is there an endpoint to GET a single member?

Author: There is not, does there need to be?

Reviewer 4: Not at the moment, depending on flags maybe in the future. But was just wondering in this case.

Author: 👍 Yeah, if there ends up being a good need for it, let me know, it's trivial to add I think
But yeah, right now flags are just notification settings, and there's not really anything else there, so I think 99% of bots aren't going to care at all about thread members

- The [Thread Members Update](#DOCS_TOPICS_GATEWAY/thread-members-update) Gateway Event which will include all users who were added to or removed from a thread by an action.

## Editing & Deleting Threads

Threads can be edited and deleted with the existing `PATCH` and `DELETE` endpoints to edit a channel.

- Deleting a thread requires the `MANAGE_THREADS` permission.
- Editing a thread to set `archived` to `false` only requires the current user has already been added to the thread. If `locked` is true, then the user must have `MANAGE_THREADS`
- Editing a thread to change the `name`, `archived`, `auto_archive_duration` fields requires `MANAGE_THREADS` or that the current user is the thread creator
- Editing a thread to change `rate_limit_per_user` or `locked` requires `MANAGE_THREADS`

## NSFW Threads

> Threads do not explicitly set the `nsfw` field. All threads in a channel marked as `nsfw` inherit that setting though.

Reviewer 3: > Threads do not explicitly set the `nsfw` field.

Does this mean that Threads don't have the `nsfw` field at all?

If so this means that for a given `threadId`, a developer would need to make 2 network calls to determine if the thread is in a `nsfw` context:
- get the thread details
- get the details of the `parentId` channel

Author: That's correct

I suspect most developers though have a gateway connection and so would already have all the channels cached from when they received guild_create, right?

Reviewer 3: Outgoing webhook based interactions (slash commands) do not have a gateway connection. REST only solutions don't either.

Reviewer 5: I think there are too many differences from a regular channel to work with thread_ids the same way as a guild channel in more operations than just the `nsfw` bool. So this type of type tracking would need to be necessary anyway. For example, threads do not have a position either so they cannot be moved.

Author: Still noodling on this, but you also wouldn't have access to things like the permission overwrites on the parent channel, so you couldn't calculate permissions right?  If anything we might be able to change this on _just_ the "get one channel" endpoint, but I'm skeptical that in most cases that would be sufficient?

Author: I think the right thing to do is to submit a feature request to return the parent channel in the "get one channel" endpoint too.  That way you get both in one API call, but you also get all the fields that can be inherited, not this one special field.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, @Rapptz makes a good point about the additional context. Avoiding the additional roundtrip is the only goal, so bundling that additional context as the parent channel in the same response makes sense to me.

Do we need to open a feature request on this repo or did you mean an internal feature request?

Author: I would raise this as you normally would, so I think that's just opening a GH issue here, and proposing that we add a new field to the "get one channel" endpoint, `parent`, that would be the serialized parent channel, if any.  It wouldn't replace parent_id either, so we don't break backwards compatibility, it'd be purely additive.

## New Message Types

Threads introduce a few new [message types](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-object-message-types), and re-purpose some others:

- `RECIPIENT_ADD` and `RECIPIENT_REMOVE` have been repurposed to also send when a user is added to or removed from a thread by someone else
- `CHANNEL_NAME_CHANGE` has been repurposed and is sent when the thread's name is changed

> - `THREAD_CREATED` is a new message sent when a thread is created from an older message, it contains a [message reference](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-reference-object-message-reference-structure) with the `guild_id` and `channel_id` of the thread. The `content` of the message is the `name` of the thread.

Reviewer 3: If I understand this correctly, right now `THREAD_CREATED` is a message that appears in the parent channel that functions as a reply message to the original message and announces that a non `PRIVATE_THREAD` has been created, however, [it seems possible that there may be other non-message-originating](https://github.com/discord/discord-api-docs/pull/2855/files#r622732264) thread types in the future that would need to be similarly announced into the parent channel.

These threads would not have an originating message and such the statement  `a new message sent when a thread is created from an older message` would be not true.

Wonder if the follow edit would be more appropriate:
```suggestion
- `THREAD_CREATED` is a new message sent to the parent channel when a thread other than `PRIVATE_THREAD` is created. If the thread was created from an existing message in the parent channel, then this message will contain a [message reference](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-reference-object-message-reference-structure) with the `guild_id` and `channel_id` of the thread. The `content` of the message is the `name` of the thread.
```

Author: How about:
```
`THREAD_CREATED` is a new message sent to the parent `GUILD_TEXT` channel, used to inform users that a thread has been created. It is currently only sent in one case: when a `PUBLIC_THREAD` is created from an older message.
```

Reviewer 6: could the exact requirements for "older message" be documented?

Author: Not right now, but I'd be open to doing that when we launch, it's changed a few times and I don't want folks depending on it yet
It's currently > 5 messages old or message > 10 minutes old

> - `THREAD_STARTER_MESSAGE` is a new message sent as the first message in certain threads. It _only_ contains a [message reference](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-reference-object-message-reference-structure) field that points to the message from which the thread was started.

Reviewer 3: > certain threads

What thread types specifically? I'd assume anything besides `PRIVATE_THREAD`.

Author: yeah, anything besides private thread
non-zero chance in the future though it applies to others.  For example, maybe we allow threads to be created that aren't attached to a message at all, so we could reword this part maybe, but I wouldn't tie it to a channel type I think?

Reviewer 3: Maybe this wording would be better then?

```suggestion
- `THREAD_STARTER_MESSAGE` is a new message sent as the first message in threads that are started from an existing message in the parent channel. It _only_ contains a [message reference](#DOCS_RESOURCES_CHANNEL/message-reference-object-message-reference-structure) field that points to the message from which the thread was started.
```

## Enumerating threads

> There are four new `GET` routes for enumerating threads in a specific channel

Reviewer 7: I'm not sure why there's need for these 3 endpoints to be seperate:
`/channels/<channel_id>/threads/active`
`/channels/<channel_id>/threads/archived/public`
`/channels/<channel_id>/threads/archived/private`.

It would be more consistent to merge these 3 under a single `/channels/<channel_id>/threads` endpoint and use query parameters such as `state` and `visibility` if needed to be filtered.

However this does add scenarios where someone might try to filter for threads which are active and private. Currently this is not supported for active threads but it should be just as it is for archived ones.

Author: I've been polling various folks on this, so far it's actually 100% against having a merged endpoint surprisingly!

I understand the concern, but there's other complexities too, like making rate limits more complicated for example.

Reviewer 8: I don't really mind the endpoints being separate, it's not like it matters much, but I'm confused by this "100% against" poll. One can retrieve all channels within a guild via a single REST request and then filter it client-side, but here we get 3 separate ones just for the sake of filtering?

Why would these have different rate-limits? Doesn't the internal logic differ only by the queried type/archive state?

Author: There are absolutely going to be differences.  At a minimum we need pagination here but guild channels doesn't

Author: **IF** we were to make a change here, what would that look like:
I think we'd have /channels/channel_id/threads and /channels/channel_id/users/@me/threads
The former for all threads, the latter for joined threads
Both would take a visibility arg, public/private
The reason for separate routes is because the first route is sorted by archive timestamp and the second route is sorted by id, so I think keeping those separate makes more sense.

The first oddity we get to is the "all threads" route would have different permissions required based on whether you call it with public or private.

The second oddity though is around active threads.  We _could_ add a status=archived/active field to both routes.  Fairly easy to do for joining.  But on the "all threads" route, we then come back to our old friend, pagination.  What do we sort by here?  It makes no sense to sort active threads by archive_timestamp.  And really there's no need for pagination since there will be an order of magnitude or more higher, fewer active threads than archived threads.  So maybe we end up with either: a pagination param that is ignored sometimes and just returns everything, different sort orders _within the same route_, or a separate route for active & archived threads.

None of those seem better to me?

Reviewer 8: I think the permissions varying are fine, that's the case on e.g. creating messages.

But let's say you went with the single route for threads and had `status` as a field:
If it was set to `archived`, you'd order them by `archive_timestamp` with pagination.
If it was set to `active`, you'd order by `id` without pagination.
And for both active and archived you could just fallback onto ordering by `id` with pagination?

I think this in itself is fine, because the same behavior has to be accounted for when implementing the separate routes. Here we just switch the behavior based on the provided `status` field instead.
However there must be different rate-limits based on the queried thread `status` because, like you said, there will be way more archived threads which makes this merge definitely not worth it.

What about just the `visibility` field though? That'd remove the need for that extra route just to specify `public` or `private` and would let us filter the active threads too.

Author: I suspect we won't have different rate limits, I bet all 4 routes end up getting the same rate limit most likely, it's just simpler that way.

Regarding visibility: that's the same thing though as just having two routes, right? idk

Reviewer 8: If they'd have the same rate-limits I'd be all for merging the three endpoints into a single one, but you've said people prefer separate ones.

Regarding visibility: yes, but this also would let us filter the active threads via the field as right now it returns both public and private ones.

> - `/channels/<channel_id>/threads/active` returns all active threads in a channel that the current user can access, includes public & private threads

Reviewer 4: Seems we are missing documentation for this in the channel resource

> - `/channels/<channel_id>/users/@me/threads/archived/private` returns all archived, private threads in a channel, that the current user has is a member of, sorted by thread id descending

Reviewer 3: Noticing that there isn't a `public` analogous version of 
`/channels/<channel_id>/users/@me/threads/archived/private`

There is `/channels/<channel_id>/threads/archived/public` but it isn't quite the same.

Is there a reason that we can't enumerate public archived threads that we are a member of?

Author: I think it's just that the public one will already include all of those, so there's no need for it.

For private threads, it becomes more of an issue because of the need to do permission checking but also maintain efficient pagination in our database, so that's why it's split into two routes.

Reviewer 3: So the idea here is that if you want the functionality of `/channels/<channel_id>/users/@me/threads/archived/public` you should call `/channels/<channel_id>/threads/archived/public` and filter based on whether you have a `thread.member` for the thread?

Seems like it could be costly if you only care to enumerate the threads you've dealt with before but you have to look at every public thread to do so, especially in a large guild.

Author: Yeah, my assumption was that the number of active threads is much much smaller than the number of archived threads so we don't need any pagination there, and that makes it easy to just do the filtering in your code?  (That's what our clients do at least, they load all active threads and then filter client side)

> - `/channels/<channel_id>/users/@me/threads/archived/private` returns all archived, private threads in a channel, that the current user has is a member of, sorted by thread id descending

Reviewer 3: Why are the sorting methodologies of this endpoint and the other 2 archived endpoints different? This may cause confusion

Author: It's because of how the backend has to paginate them, there's not an efficient way to paginate joined threads by archive timestamp unfortunately.
